.\" wiredctl.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2007 Axel Andersson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" MARCUS D. WATTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Feb 5, 2007
.Dt WIREDCTL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wiredctl
.Nd
.Xr wired 8
server control interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm wiredctl
.Ar start | stop | restart | reload | index | register | config | configtest | debug | status | help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm wiredctl
is a frontend to
.Xr wired 8 .
It is designed to control the starting and stopping of the server in an easier manner.
.Pp
The commands are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width
.It Va start
Start the
.Xr wired 8
daemon.
.It Va stop
Stops the
.Xr wired 8
daemon.
.It Va restart
Restarts the
.Xr wired 8
daemon.
.It Va reload
Tells the
.Xr wired 8
daemon to reload its configuration by sending it the signal HUP.
.It Va index
Tells the
.Xr wired 8
daemon to index its files by sending it the signal USR1.
.It Va register
Tells the
.Xr wired 8
daemon to register with trackers by sending it the signal USR2.
.It Va config
Prints the current active configuration.
.It Va configtest
Runs a configuration syntax test, to verify that the config file will be accepted.
.It Va debug
Start the
.Xr wired 8
daemon in
.Xr gdb 1 .
.It Va status
Prints a status summary.
.It Va help
Prints a quick command guide.
.El
.Pp
Additional argument flags passed with the
.Va start
and
.Va restart
commands are passed directly to
.Xr wired 8 , in addition to the default flags. The default flags can be set by opening
.Nm wiredctl
in any text editor and editing the variable
.Va WIREDFLAGS .
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm wiredctl
and the Wired protocol were developed by Axel Andersson, Zanka Software.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wired 8 ,
.Xr wired.conf 5
